Half hour away from the opens in Hong
Kong, Shenzhen, and Shanghai. You're
watching the China Show. I'm Yvon Man
with David and Glass.
>> Good morning. Let's get to your top
stories today. Caution in the markets.
That's ahead of the Fed decision. Trade
in focus, too, as well. You have the US
and China agreeing to keep talking about
a tariff truce extension with President
Trump making the final call.
>> Meanwhile, US allies Taiwan and India
scramble to get their own deals wrapped
up ahead of that August 1st deadline.
And earning season heats up in China
with CL and HSBC on deck today to report
their quarterly numbers. We'll have
previews just ahead.
[Music]
Good morning. Welcome to the show.
Midweek session is about 29 minutes
away. The state of equity markets on
your screen slightly catching a bids uh
although this is really when you look at
a volume story more a holding pattern
ahead of some key risk events out there.
I mean the next 48 hours not to mention
even trade earnings you have a Fed
decision coming up as well. Uh could
sway of course the the pendulum in in
certain ways. On top of that and we'll
talk more about this in a moment of
course this massive 8.0 0 earthquake in
Russia and we're now looking at tsunami
warnings including in Japan in Tokyo
Bay. We'll get you guys updated on that
in a moment. Dollarary yen coming up
very very shortly on your screens. Uh
somewhat reacting to that already. Uh
euro dollar on your screens as well.
Right now this goes into the story today
where the dollar was extending past
tense uh gains for a fifth day. still
might be the case in fact when you look
at some other crosses but certainly not
with the not not in the the case of the
Japanese yen which is seeing some
strength right now perhaps on the back
of what's taking place again we'll get
you guys updated of course on on that
earthquake in a moment twos and tens
earthquake in Russia to be more specific
again uh twos and tens on your screens
you have a Fed decision coming up bond
bears have pulled back a little bit of
course some of their bets so low rates
maybe not today and maybe no clarity on
that e either as far as that's concerned
uh oil has been on an uptrend recently
that's coming up on your screens. The
Shanghai crude contract is just coming
online as well. One to watch. Now within
the commodity space, it's really also
this rally in metals prices. And at the
bottom, you see rebar futures up. We're
looking at a 12% gain now from about the
lows of this year. Biggest gain in 2025
on Tuesday. And as you can see, we're
building on those gains even further
right now. We'll talk more about this in
a moment. A50 futures coming up on your
screens. 10ear yield, this meltup in
yields. Uh I think the 10-year yield is
now at about nearly a fourmonth high at
$174. China on your screens. We're
looking at a weaker start going into the
session today.
>> Yeah, certainly that's one thing in
focus. What's happened in the last few
minutes is of course these tsunami
warnings as you mentioned Dave, you're
seeing basically a dollar a yen, they're
sort of falling off a cliff, right?
Because of the headlines that we're
seeing. uh this powerful earthquake, the
magnitude of 8.7 as we've been talking
about near Russia here according to the
US Geological Survey. So that's why
we're seeing these tsunami warnings all
the way from Tokyo Bay to Hawaii, parts
of Alaska here as well. We'll try to
give you a map on what this all looks
like. Uh but you are seeing tsunami
watch in full force on the California
Mexico border as well. So Guam is also
under tsunami watch.
>> Yeah. So, Guam, in the last literally
the last within the last two minutes, a
tsunami warning has been issued for the
state of Hawaii map go on your screens
that massive red circle you see towards
the center at the very top indicates of
course the magnitude of that earthquake
that just hit uh eastern part of Russia
and of course the other thing we were
just mentioning right now yen is gaining
against the dollar. Uh you're looking at
a tsunami warning for airs including
including Tokyo Bay. Let's bring in our
colleague out of Tokyo right now, John
Herskovich to give us a sense of what's
going on there. Yeah, John, I guess get
us up to speed here.
>> Sure. We're we've got a tsunami warning
that's for a huge part of eastern Japan
from Hokkaido through most of Honchu,
the main island. This includes uh Tokyo,
parts of the Osaka region. The tsunami
is going to start coming ashore within
the next few minutes. Uh, and it's
probably going to go about down the
Japan coast for the next 90 minutes to 2
hours. According to the meteorological
agency, the wave is predicted to be at a
height of 3 m. So, this is something,
you know, areas close to shore can be
affected. I mean, this includes things
like Tokyo Bay is under a warning. um
you have something like Haneda airport
which is right on Tokyo Bay. It's pretty
lowlying. This is something that we need
to watch out for. So it's a large part
of Japan. Um many big cities Tokyo. This
also includes the Tohoku region which
was hit in the 2011 tsunami. So, we're I
was just listening to uh NHK, the
national broadcaster, issuing warnings
to people in these areas to evacuate and
get to Highland as quickly as possible.
>> John, can you tell us a bit more about
that location, right? You know, is this
region prone to tsunamis and what impact
might this have on the country now?
>> Uh, sure. in part of this reg. The
entire coast of Japan, both sides are
prone to tsunamis, but um something of
this scale hasn't been seen for a while.
Um the 2011 tsunami in the To<unk>hoku
region was mostly for that was the
northeastern part of Japan. That tsunami
averaged about 10 to 15 meters. The one
that we're looking at now is about uh
three meters, but it's a huge area with
a lot of big cities which can be hit by
it. So, it's a worry for the country.
Um, and we're going to start it. We're
going to start seeing it come ashore
from places in Hokkaido over the next
few minutes. And for the next 90 minutes
or 2 hours, the tsunami will be going
down the Japanese coast and we'll see
what happens. So, the warnings are out
there. the people here are prepared for
tsunamis. It's a part of life here as
earthquakes. So, we'll yeah there the
government is warning and we'll see how
it plays out.
>> John, thanks for that update. We'll
we'll certainly come back to you if you
have any more updates for us. That's our
East Asia government editor John
Herzkovitz there on the latest of this
tsunami watch in Japan right now.
Another one of our top stories of course
is what's happening in Sweden. The US
and China have wrapped up their meetings
in Stockholm with no deal to extend a
tariff truce. Treasury Secretary Scott
Besson saying that President Trump will
make the final call.
>> We don't want to decouple. We just need
to derisk with certain uh strategic
industries whether uh it's the rare
whether it's the rare earth
semiconductors medicines and you know we
talked about what we could do together
to get into balance within the
relationships.
>> All right let's bring in our China
correspondent Low. So they agree to keep
talking, but we're we're not sure about
what this whole extension whether we get
it or not.
>> Yes, Scott Besson reportedly said good
things about it to his boss. Trump said
that Scott Besson felt very good about
those talks. Not clear yet whether there
will be an extension, but the mood music
is quite hopeful. Both sides saying that
the talks were constructive, were
candid, were wide ranging. And of
course, one of the big issues that were
on the t was on the table was uh rare
Jameson Gria saying he never wants to
talk about it again. As far as it's
concerned, that's case closed. The US
wanted reassurance from China that rare
earth will continue to flow. They got
that according to Jameson Gria, this is
the biggest concession that China has
given them so far. Now, he was asked
about the section 232 investigation into
the different sectors like
pharmaceuticals, semiconductors. China
wanted an update on that. But but the US
says essentially that this is going to
be announced later. There will not be
any exemptions for any country. It's
going to be universal. Uh and when it
comes to Chinese buying of Russian oil,
Scott Besson mentioned in a press
briefing that he warned China of
potential sanctions, secondary sanctions
on China for buying that oil potentially
perhaps up to 100% as President Put
Trump has threatened uh when he put this
ultimatum on Putin. So this is something
that could be very tricky for China
because their largest source of crude
oil is from Russia. Um, and this is
where things were left a little bit o
open. Scott Basson mentioned that China
expressed its concern saying they will
protect their energy sovereignty, but
Besson basically told them that it's up
to them if they want to pay the 100%
tariff. So, there's still some issues to
be addressed, but overall it seems that
they covered a lot of ground and
President Trump also acknowledged that
he is going to meet with presidency
before the end of the year.
>> Now, separately, something I want to ask
you. So the finance minister wrote in
study times and I guess for context for
our viewers who might not be too
familiar this is a journal under the
communist party central party school.
It's a glimpse into policy intentions.
What did he write? What was it? What was
it about?
>> Yes, it's a very very long and chunky
article and I read it so you don't have
to but it was basically an assessment of
how the economy is doing. There were a
lot of statistics but the conclusion is
that uncertainty is increasing. So he
tackled all the big problems in the
economy including real estate, the debt
problem, consumption problem. So he
talked about how the focus continues to
be on extending consumption especially
when it comes to elder care, child care,
tourism. Already we have seen some
government instructions on you know
giving out more subsidies when it comes
to child care for kids under three.
There's been also a focus on taxation
reform and shifting the collection of
consumption tax from the central
government to the local government. And
this is particularly critical because it
would reshape the incentives for local
governments for them to increase
consumption targets rather than
production targets. So it would go some
way to reduce that over capacity problem
and maybe boost domestic consumption.
You talked about the real estate problem
as well and continuing to develop this
new model of real estate development
which according to sources really is
about you know not allowing developers
to sell or to pre-ell homes that are not
not yet built. So again a supply side
reform there and as well uh frontloading
the issuance and usage of local
government special bonds and central
government special bonds. So nothing we
haven't heard before but it's a
reiteration that these sort of
priorities remain important to the
government amid the current economic
environment.
>> Right Minman thank you so much Minow our
China correspondent there. We'll turn
our attention back to Japan of course
where the developing story 8.7
earthquake in Russia tsunami warnings
all over the place including in Japan
state of Hawaii as well. We'll get to
Hawaii in a moment here. So a couple of
things here. So Japan a few minutes ago
has issued a tsunami warning for airs
including in Tokyo Bay. You're looking
at live pictures right now uh of the
north of Japan. This is in Hokkaido.
Hiro is what you're seeing on your
screens where it's just gone past 10 in
the morning. We're also getting word
from Tohoku To<unk> To<unk>hoku Electric
that nos tsunami impact so far, at least
no tsunami impact. Let me just clarify
that on its Onagawa nuclear plant which
is in Miyagi of course in Japan. So uh
once we have more updates and details,
we are on tsunami watch. Uh we will get
those to you uh a bit later on uh in the
show, right? Um yeah. Uh coming up here
on shows as well, we'll talk more about
this. There's lots to unpack as far as
the Chinese markets go. Going into the
open today, 18 minutes away, Shanghai,
Shenzhen. And here in Hong Kong, we're
also watching literally the weather
where a typhoon is headed and expected
to make landfall in Shanghai today. This
is the China show.
[Music]
Right, welcome back. We're cutting down
to the open of trade 15 minutes away the
Wednesday session. We're looking at
delivery logistics um after uh China's
now looking at that specific sector as
far as being able to curb excessive
competition. Steel prices have been on
the way up including the 10-year yield
which is at about four month highs.
Earnings on your screens data as far as
Macau is concerned and of course we're
also in weather watch which is expected
Typhoon K is expected to make landfall
in Shanghai later today. Yeah, there's
certainly a lot of things going on in
the back of the tsunami. You mentioned
the typhoon. We're still watching some
of these flooding in Beijing uh and
parts of China as well. So certainly
weather is a key thing to watch across
the day. Uh let's bring in though Dan
Wong, a China director at the Eurasia
Group to tell us what happened in in
Sweden, right? You know, three days of
talks or third round of talks uh that
had just wrapped up between the two
nations. Dan Wong, you know, what what
do you think of the key takeaways that
came out of Stockholm? Where are we now?
So it looks like the mechanism
established in London talk and Geneva
talk actually is working. So the top
leadership might meet by the end of this
year and that's a very positive sign.
And both sides talk about the talks
being constructive. But I believe
judging by the sentiment over the rare
earth export control and over tariffs
being eventually determined by Trump,
we're probably looking at the peak China
US relationship. the relationship can
deteriorate very quickly next year but
this year it does look uh the sentiment
is warming up.
>> Yeah. And what does it tell you about
the policy outlook in terms of policy
support? So you know the data's held up
well and it looks like you know this
relationship between the two US and
China seems to be holding up quite well.
Uh does is that negative for policy
support expectations?
Uh in a way it is because so far China's
export has been beating expectations and
the domestic economy seemed to be
holding up quite well. Um but if we look
at the data more closely the first half
of the year good performance was mainly
concentrated between January and May u
major indicators in June started to
collapse including uh the transaction
volume of housing. So we have to watch
very closely in what's going on in the
poly bureau meeting next week uh
actually this week and the central
government may not have the appetite to
roll out aggressive policies yet but uh
in August or September they might have
to pull out some of the bigger gun
because the job market is getting pretty
weak.
Dan, I I want to get back to what you
said just now that perhaps we've just
hit the peak of the USChina relationship
after Geneva, after Stockholm.
>> I mean, you're starting to see the US
really try, you know, to make the
efforts to try to smooth out these trade
deals, right? Whether it's, you know,
freezing export tech curbs, uh, whether
it's, you know, stopping the stopover
with Ling Da from Taiwan,
>> uh, in the US, you know, it seems like
they're they really want a trade deal.
What are you foreseeing next year where
things could really deteriorate and how
is it going to play out?
>> Well, in terms of tariffs talk, probably
China will get more concessions from the
US and it looks like the 20% of the uh
the tariffs related with fentinel could
go away and both sides are quite hopeful
in that front but when it comes to other
type of competitions especially in
technology there is no sign of any
fundamental improvement. So next year we
might be looking at this new normal that
tariff rate on China is permanently
lower than what we see now. But other t
export control including additional
financial sanction or financial control
targeting China could be in fact
strengthened. So for China, this is not
necessarily good news. Uh since the
structural reform in China is more or
less stalled and the government really
needs to find out a way to figure out
how to uh help the housing market and
real estate developers,
>> right? And maybe just one last question
in that before we talk about the
structural issues including
anti-involution.
How are Chinese companies right now
navigating the uncertainty around where
tariffs are going to be to your point
lower next year? What's happening right
now on the ground?
>> Uh I have just finished a field trip in
China. I'm talking to a few dozens of
Chinese companies with US market as
their main destinations. It turns out
that Chinese companies are quite
resilient. their response to tariffs are
quite calm and so far their exports and
new orders are holding up quite well. So
for Chinese companies, they do not
believe that the trans shipment tariffs
uh in other countries like Vietnam, like
Cambodia, uh like Indonesia could
actually be enforcable. U many of the
companies are getting more inventive
over time by decomposing their final
goods into different pots. So they fit
in different HS code and by using
different container ships and ship to
different ports in the US and then
reassemble in the US and become final
product. So it is quite a common
practice for Chinese companies to get
around those tariffs. And for those
destination countries like Cambodia for
example, there's not a willingness or
capacity from the status bureau or the
tax bureau to really figure out the
local content. So that's in China's
favor. Overall, the supply chain
resilience is still there. The real
problem is actually whether the European
market will be more stringent in China
and whether there will be more political
push back from the emerging markets over
China's export.
What does that tell you about what
export data is going to look like the
next coming months, Dan? I mean, it
seems like this has still been quite
strong, quite resilient, maybe because
we're in a trade truce right now, but
how quickly can things really kind of
deteriorate there.
>> Um, factories and companies or American
buyers cannot frontloading forever. In
the first half of the year, they pretty
much stocked up the whole year or or at
least six months of supply until
Christmas. So in Q3, I can see this
rising anxiety over China's export. It
probably will enter the contraction
territory. One counter point to that is
that Chinese companies are still going
global. So as more of them going out
setting up factories in different areas,
they will import machinery, raw
material, intermediate industrial goods.
So that will be a short-term boost for
China's exports. But still, the highest
value added would be those final
products targeting the US and European
market.
>> All right. But Dan, while that's a good
thing, the going global, that's not part
of the domestic GDP equation. So my
question is what then takes place or
what then takes the place of exports
which have held up uh the growth rate
and you know how do you see the housing
market?
>> Uh the housing market is still far from
reaching a bottom and now our estimate
is that probably around 2027 housing
market will reach a meaningful bottom
and start to turn around. Um, and one
reason is that the pentup demand has
been accumulating for a few years. Maybe
by 2027 the demand will finally catch up
with the supply. Um but there has been
talks floating around about the hope
that the central government could set up
a uh housing fund or housing reserve
fund in the Freddy Mac Fanny May type of
uh style of the housing uh national
reserve to take over the excess
inventory from the local government. If
that happens, it will change the entire
game. But so far, it just seems that the
government has very little appetite in
that front. They want to defend a
minimum politically minimum uh
acceptable acceptable growth rate which
is about four to 4.5%.
But to push the growth rate above that
that takes a lot more of determination
to bail out housing sector which they
they still uh haven't show willingness
to do.
>> Dan we have about 20 seconds left. I
have to ask you about anti-evolution. Is
this going to work and how?
Well, selling China short right now
doesn't have a market. Anti
anti-evolution will not work in the next
probably four to eight months. But over
time, the capital market will pick up
the positive sentiment and in a year or
two the real economy will will respond.
So I'm fairly positive over the impact
of this in the long run.
>> Dan Wong, Erasia Group, China director
there in Shanghai for us. The narrative
won't save the real economy but will
benefit the capital market which is
something we have certainly seen
recently. Thank you so much there for
the time. Stay dry of course given uh
the weather that is about to make
landfall later today. Futures are
looking like this. Leo in focus. We'll
tell you why in a moment and we'll leave
you with a look at Shanghai of course
where a typhoon is set to make landfall
later today. Plenty more ahead. You're
watching the China show. Good morning.
[Music]
We're watching the EV sector here this
morning on the back what we saw in the
Lee Auto ADRs were basically collapsing
as overnight there. Uh it seems like
investors might be taking profits from
you know the recent share price rally
the launch of this I8 model. Morgan
Staley says hold on this correction
overdone. They say focus a little bit
more on pricing of this i8 and really
the pre-order conversion the following
days. But yes, there you go. EV sector
is falling. The open is next. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
Welcome back. You're watching the China
Show. We're counting down to the open.
We're also looking at things that are
unfortunately set to make landfall.
Number one is a typhoon in Shanghai
expected today. We're also looking at
live pictures north of Japan after this
massive 8.7 earthquake in Russia.
Tsunami warnings all around including
Hawaii, parts of the western uh coast,
United States and Canada and in Japan of
course Tokyo Bay. And we are expecting
we are being told to expect u a tsunami
there uh possibly as high as 3 m. So
we'll keep an eye on that as well.
>> Yeah, Osaka Prefecture in Inner Tokyo
Bay remain covered by this tsunami
advisory here this morning as well. So
we'll continue to bring you updates
there uh once we do see it, but
certainly it is one thing to watch.
Dollar yen certainly has been reacting.
It is perhaps a bit of a knee-jerk
reaction, but we are seeing a stronger
yen this morning. You take a look at how
the open in China is looking up uh there
today. Uh and you are seeing again it's
pretty quiet when it comes to onshore
markets. Shanghai is just flat at 3600
level as well. Uh but we are still
seeing a little bit of re resurgence
here a reversal in some of the
commodities sort of uh correction that's
a bit of a strong word but yes some
things will pull back there but we are
seeing now steel rebar is up once again
iron ore Shanghai crude uh there on the
back of some of the geopolitical
headlines that we're seeing around
Russia really has been reacting uh to
the the oil price and what oil traders
are pricing in right now. So that's
something that to watch there. But then
again, it's still, you know, we're
getting into the earning season in Hong
Kong as well. So we're watching the
likes of CL, HSBC, the likes. So we'll
get a flavor of everything from, you
know, the EV sector to to banks. There
you go. Hong Kong is certainly feeling
it here today. We're hit by about 1% to
the downside for the hang tech is down
some 2%. I believe it's the EV sector
that's dragging that lower. I want to
say it should be. Uh but there you go.
HSBC is a standalone one that's in terms
of your large caps that is actually
still in the green here this morning.
But Alibaba is down two and a half%. BU
as well. Mtoan, Xiaomi is seeing some
pretty sizable moves to the downside as
well. Uh the EV sector, right? So we
talked about this i8 model that that Lee
Auto just launched. It seems like people
are just kind of buying the rumors,
selling the fact maybe, but you know,
maybe it's time to book some profit.
Some say, you know, after this sort of
massive rally that we're seeing in some
of these EV stocks, Dave.
>> Okay. U some data to tell you about QQ
numbers inflation coming out of
Australia. So looking at a softer in
inflation print there 7 quarter and
quarter chimp mean CPI also coming in uh
a touch lower than estimates and as you
can see the Aussie dollar is now weaker
on the back of that and also stronger is
the equity market extending those gains
post the CPI numbers which did come
through uh as well. Yeah. So as far as
that's concerned the next RBA meeting is
coming up I believe in about two weeks.
Let me just check my date. Yep. August
12th. So that's about two weeks from
now. Um and we're looking at yeah a
softer inflation print coming through
there in in Oz.
>> Yeah. In terms of the movers, we're
watching some of these delivery firms
here this morning as well. So we did get
uh some news that the China is summon
some of these delivery companies here on
excessive competition. So it's not just
the the food delivery sort of companies.
Now we're talking about ZTO Express, YTO
Express, Yunda Holding and STTO Express
uh that were summoned in this meeting.
So there you go. You are seeing
anti-involution as part of it as well. A
10% gains for STO express this morning.
Chinese banks and insurance is also one
to watch uh given what we heard from
also regulators push to curb cutthroat
rivalry in finance according to some
reports as well. We are seeing slight
downside for some of these financials
here today and it's really about the EV
story. Right. So Lee Auto as we talked
about was down some 9% in the
pre-market. So i8 launch that seems to
be the trigger. So, the price slightly
beat expectations according to Morgan
Stanley, but the market debate is really
focused on now the competitiveness of
the hardware specs. So, there's there
you go. We're seeing the stock down some
11% right now. Morgan Stanley is saying,
you know, hold your horses here. This
correction might be a bit overdone right
now if you're looking to book some
profits there. They're saying they're
mostly positive on the pricing and
advise watching the pre-order conversion
in the following days. So don't be too
scared just yet according to Morgan
Stanley Dave.
>> Yeah. Although if you listen to them you
would have lost this money. Um although
maybe that's a longerterm outlook. Of
course. Of course. Thank you. Yeah.
Yeah. Context is context is important
there. Uh they are certainly racing to
the downside. Also competing if you will
there uh to the downside. Okay let's get
more on the EV sector and what's taking
place. Let's bring in Linda Lou of
course our Asia transport reporter here
with us on set to talk us through. CL of
course is is is the big earnings on deck
today. What to expect there? So analysts
are actually expecting CL to post quite
healthy growth in their sales despite
all this turbulence uh in global trade.
Um that's coming on from demand uh due
to some popular models from its
customers like Xiaomi. We've seen just
an absolute uh surge in demand for the
latest SUE from Xiaomi which uh some of
its um versions will use CL's batteries
as well as other customers in Gilead are
also selling really well. Uh we're also
seeing uh EV demand tick up in big
markets like Europe. So the majority of
uh batteries for EVs exported from China
uh to the Europe actually uh come from
CL. So all of those help to boost uh
CL's sales but profits and operating
margins will remain under pressure
because uh there's an intense EV price
war going on in the Chinese market and
we're still kind of seeing this uh
fallout from trade tensions globally.
>> I was going to get your take on what's
happening with Leato.
Is this just a matter of just profit
taking or do you think there is concerns
around this whole i8 launch now? I think
with the IA launch, Leo Auto definitely
has a lot writing on this because this
is a SUV they're hoping to compete with
an um upcoming model uh from Tesla that
um I think reports are suggesting are
also going to be six seats. So
definitely um they are trying to take
some of their market share. They are uh
under a lot of pressure to um keep their
sales up. They've already had to
downgrade some of their outlook. So, um
I think uh the pressure is riding on how
the I8 is going to perform.
>> Okay, Linda, thank you. Our Asia
transport, Linda Lou, there uh on of
course all these price moves that we're
seeing the EV sector. I've got to get
the latest here when it comes to uh this
earthquake. So, uh an 8.8 magnitude
earthquake uh has just been reported
here. This is about 120 kilometers uh
northeast Russia. So, uh we're still
feeling some of this here today as well.
Well, and as we've been talking about
that tsunami advisory has been upgraded
to a warning now in Japan.
>> Yeah, it's at the same area uh where the
initial strong one well this is stronger
than current based on the current data
coming out. Uh the initial one hits what
time is it now? I would say just over an
hour back an 8.7 hitting uh very far
east of the country and following that a
series of five to six to high six
magnitude quakes have hit and now we
understand another 8.8 8 earthquake has
hit in that similar part. Separately,
but related to that is we are in tsunami
watch where we are getting some lines
coming through out of the Japanese prime
minister that they are confirming uh
still uh that whether or not there will
be an impact here from a tsunami. Uh
we'll get you guys more details on that.
I'm not sure if you're seeing anything
else here.
>> It's not just Japan, right? We talk
about what's happening in in of course
the likes of Chile, Ecuador, Guam.
They're under some of these sort of
tsunami warnings and advisories here
right now. Hawaii has been the latest.
So, Maui County has issued this
evacuation orders amid this tsunami
threat. So, it is all around the coast
that we're watching this uh this really
the impact there. Um so, now we're
getting a little bit more alerts when it
comes to the Chile coast. So, they also
confirming that tsunami alert for the
Chilean coast after this earthquake as
well. Yeah, it's it's worth pointing out
the last time we had something near
almost nearly as strong if not stronger
of course was back in the the 2011 March
2011 there which hit of course the north
part of uh Japan which resulted of
course in not just tsunamis of course in
the following months and years of course
the uh the fallout there from uh the
Fukushima nuclear plant not to of course
just bring that back for no reason at
all but it certainly you're looking at
live pictures at about the same part of
the country on the left side of your
screens that is the northern part of
Japan where by the way very near to that
area generally speaking is where these
massive earthquakes have been hitting.
>> Yep. Remember Tohoku Hoku electric right
saying no tsunami impact to its Onagawa
nuclear plant that's the update that
came a couple minutes ago. Uh but also
uh when you talk about flights right so
we've heard that Sai airport has
suspended their flights there on the
tsunami warning as well. So it is
impacting overall the travel side of
things as well. So that's just the
latest right now. Okay, NHK
just reporting right now that Japan has
detected a tsunami in Hokkaido 30 cm. 30
cm just for context there. That's very
important context there out of NHK. So,
uh this is something that we will
continue to track. U this is happening
quite literally as we speak. It is a
developing story. live pictures of
Hokkaido on the left and for our
Bloomberg clients that's a map of course
of the earthquakes coming through and
the large red circles that you see on
your screens is is indicates of course
where in the world that's taking place
and the larger the circle the stronger
the earthquake that has hit there uh so
far okay um for now I don't see any more
updates here um we can move things along
very quickly and talk about so we just
ended on earnings there with CL also
coming out later Today is HSBC. Two key
numbers are set to come out. Bloomberg
Intelligence thinks that uh the bank
along with other banks in Hong Kong
could actually face a macro risks in the
second half despite shares rebounding
from the April lows. We're now currently
at 10120 there on HSBC here in Hong
Kong. Our finance reporter Denise Wi is
here with us on set to talk us through
what specifically to expect with this
set of results coming in a couple of
hours. Denise?
>> Um well, we're expecting earnings to
drop, pre-tax profits to drop about 20%,
so weaker compared year. Um and
basically we're looking out for um
higher impairments. There's going to be
a jump in impairment cause bad loan
provisions.
>> Uh investors be looking out for the Hong
Kong commercial real estate sector. Any
guidance around that?
>> Um additionally uh high boards collapse
in in Hong Kong. So that's underpinning
loans u mortgages. So we're expected to
see some pressure on the margins.
>> Um and last quarter they did guide that
they would take an impairment charge on
um bocom. So we could see some of that
flowing through to the bottom line this
quarter. Um in terms of share buybacks,
uh Goldman is forecasting about 3
billion of share buybacks. So capital
returns is another focus for the bank.
>> Uh I want to get to your story, this
interview that you did with Croup um
there. So they're planning to increase
headcount in it Asia rates and prime
businesses by 5 to 10% over the next
year. What's driving that plan?
>> I think it's pretty much client activity
as we've seen. there's been a lot of
renewed interest in Hong Kong um IPO
markets uh China stocks uh so they're
seeing pretty strong uh international
flows coming into Hong Kong market so
it's to deal with that client flow in
addition also they've seen quant funds
um looking to access Asia market as well
so pretty much um that there's increased
client flows and hedge fun activity
>> okay Denise thank you Denise we our
finance reporter uh bringing us that
great interview as well as what to
expect out of HSBC here today and we're
going to continue on we have much for
earnings ahead tomorrow. I'll be joined
exclusively by the Hanglo Properties
chair, Adriel Chen. That's going to be
at 9:30 a.m. right here on the show here
in Hong Kong. Plenty more ahead. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
Welcome back. You're watching the China
Show. More now on the developing story
of course as it pertains to China and US
and trade talks there and certainly
someone who has had a bad week perhaps
on the back of that broader conversation
is the Taiwanese president Ling suffered
a string of high-profile setbacks of
course over the past week wounding at
his leadership at home and abroad this
US tariff deadline of course looming um
and things could could get worse for
more on this let's bring in uh Ian Lee
joining us from Taipei this morning
Yeah. Well, good morning and thank you
for coming in the show. Tell us about
all these setbacks and give us give us
context there.
>> Hi. Yeah, sure. So um last Saturday in
Taiwan, a recall election aimed at
removing opposition lawmakers from
office ended in a landslide uh defeat
for President Lie and you know the the
the opposition lawmakers have been you
know giving very hard time for President
Lie and they've been boycotting like uh
government budget proposals including
the cru crucial military spending that
President Lie has pledged to increase to
over 3% of GDP of the island. Yeah. And
shortly after that, uh, the US
government also rejected, you know,
Taiwan's request for President Lie to
have stopovers in the US on his way to
visit diplomatic allies in Central and
South America. So, you know, things are,
you know, getting very very embarrassing
for for person domestically and also on
international stage.
>> Yeah. You say wounding his presidency at
home and abroad. Ian, um, what does the
the remainder of his term look like
then? what are people expecting?
>> Yeah. So uh I mean we we have been
seeing like uh remarks or comments from
president lie who said that you know
everyone has to accept the uh you know
the results of the recall votes and uh
as for the transit visits uh you know
the the minister of foreign affairs with
Taiwan and also the presidential office
has said that there they have never
announced any plan for the president to
have any overseas visits and so there's
no uh postponement and no cancellation
or you know no denial of transits or
whatsoever. ever from the US. So they've
been, you know, trying to downplay, you
know, this embarrassing uh, you know,
uh, situation for them.
>> Yeah. And so what then are the are the
possible outcomes here for these trade
talks between between Taiwan and the US
specifically?
>> Yeah. Yeah. So I I think this is
something that's more concerning for
most of the people here and you know
with the lumen uh deadline um you know
for the trade talk on on Friday uh you
know if if if Taiwan can't really get
the tariff rates like lower than 20%
then things will look even worse for
president like I mean Taiwan was hit by
uh uh m uh President Donald Trump with
the 32 tiff rates on liberation day and
you know people were actually expecting
Taiwan to be among the first weight of
the countries to see the tariff
announcements but after you know four at
least four rounds of the trade talks so
far we still haven't seen any race
announced uh for Taiwan so yeah so uh
you know with with the regional peers
like Japan and Vietnam getting tariff
rates between 15 to 20% so uh people
expecting that uh you know anything more
than 20% will be another defeat for the
president
>> Yan thank you Yan Lee there are typ Eco
Gov reporter joining us there uh with
the latest. In other news this morning,
Blackstone has confirmed that a top
executive in its real estate business
was killed in yesterday's shooting at
its Manhattan headquarters. Wesley
Leatner was CEO of Blackstone REIT and a
43-year-old mother of two. She was among
four people killed in the shooting,
including a police officer and security
guard. Law enforcement officials say the
gunman was targeting the NFL
headquarters in the same building, but
went to the wrong floor.
Oil prices are in focus after President
Trump says he's giving Russia until
August 8th to agree to a Ukraine
ceasefire or face tariffs and possible
secondary sanctions. Trump had
originally set a 50-day deadline which
would have fallen in early September. He
also says he's not concerned about oil
market fallout because the US can ramp
up its own energy production.
UK Prime Minister Kier Stomer says
Britain will recognize Palestine in
September unless Israel agrees to a
ceasefire with Hamas. He says Israel
must also commit to a peace process that
would result in a Palestinian state. The
decision follows similar plans from
France and signals a sharp diplomatic
shift. Israel condemned the
announcement, calling it a reward for
terrorism.
>> Okay, let me get uh let me get to an
update here of this massive earthquake
and the fallout we're continuing to see.
We have a a look at some of the Japan
power producers and it's almost really
bad flashbacks of u our coverage 14
years ago. Kansas Electric has halted a
unit at its global power plant on a
tsunami warning. To be more specific,
it's a warning. Um, a couple of minutes
back NHK reported that they had detected
a tsunami in Hokkaido 30 uh cm um as far
as the the height is concerned. A few
minutes before that, another massive
earthquake hit 8.8 magnitude same part
of of of far east Russia and also along
around the timeline Maui county has
issued evacuation orders amid the
tsunami threat and also along the last
few minutes minister Chile has also
issued a similar tsunami warning and
alert after a very strong series of
earthquakes in far eastern Russia.
Plenty more ahead here on the China
show.
[Music]
All
right, we're going to talk about iFly
tech for a second here. The stock of the
AI company has been under pressure this
year and really kind of bucking this
rally that we've seen among Chinese tech
which was triggered by of course that
optimism around deep seek. Now speaking
to us exclusively in Shanghai, the CFO
Dwan Dawei told us why he thinks this
isn't a cause for concern.
If you're talking about the price of
shares, uh from my experience, the
entrepreneurs
should not keep their eyes on the share
markets every day and every minute. they
should care about the customers, care
about product, care about the
technology.
>> What are the mean the headwinds that you
face as a company?
>> Uh the short term a lot of for example
maybe currently the micro economy also
have some pressure and uh and also the
the trend of the technology also the
competition also very tight. So a lot of
short-term infectors we need to uh
notice those short-term factors but we
also more important we need to focus on
the long-term factors.
>> IFly tech is now looking into
international markets which I understand
you are also responsible for looking
after as well. Which markets are you
prioritizing in particular? H it's hard
to say which market is the priority for
our target because in current uh stage
we think that uh uh artificial
intelligence the industry is still not
material.
>> Which countries though are you looking
toward? If from the culture and the easy
for travels for transportation we
looking the Asian market is more closer
to us. So currently our business in
Korea, in Japan and also the other Asian
countries is increased but uh in the you
know long-term run we think the more and
more country they need uh to copy some
experience and models from China.
And that was the iFly tech CFO Dwan Dawe
there speaking exclusively with Animal
Jewelers in Shanghai.
>> Okay. Uh an update of the precautions
that are taking place in Hokkaido and uh
the north of Japan here on the back of
that a series of very very strong
earthquakes 8.8 in Russia very near of
course that part of the country. Toss
Tokyo Electric has now put out a
statement that they have evacuated some
staff from Fukushima plants plural on
the tsunami warning. It's not clear
whether this is the Fukushima Medici
plant that of course if for some of you
that might remember uh following the
earthquake in 2011 but we we'll just
underscore that they have evacuated
staff from Fukushima plants on on that
specific warning and among the many many
things we've been tracking this this
hour.
>> Yep. So certainly you're seeing the
precautions and and people are really
kind of bracing for maybe what sort of
impact could come but you know what
we've heard so far is that maybe the
waves are about 30 cm. So that's
certainly interesting to have that
context here, right? NHK initially was
saying we could be see expecting up to
three meters height in terms of tsunami
waves. Um but right now we are seeing
there NHK detecting 30 cm tsunami uh
there in Hokkaido. We talk about some of
the flights have been suspended. Sai
airport also has been doing that this
morning. But yes, as you talk about it,
it's not just a Japan story, Dave. It's
something that really has gone global
around the world. Yeah, Chile, we're
looking at a tsunami warning there
across their coast as well towards the
northern part. Canada, western coast of
the United States, tsunami advisory, I
believe, is the more apt uh descriptor
there. In Hawaii, though, where uh
things are, let's say, more front and
center, let's put it that way. Maui
County has issued evacuation orders amid
that tsunami threats. Uh yeah, and so we
will continue to update you as well.
Japan as we speak is continue to uh
ensure or trying to get more details on
this whether or not a a tsunami is in
fact going to impact or tsunami impact
on Japan. We'll be live out of Tokyo
coming through in the second hour of the
China dollar yen on the way down. Some
breaking news this hour. More ahead.
This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Welcome back to the China show. Here's a
look at the CSI 300, the half hour of
the session here. We're seeing a slight
upside here, but then again, watching,
you know, the raindrops on our our dash
cam there when it comes to our Shanghai
live shot. So, we're expecting some sort
of typhoon to make landfall as well
there. Of course, as we continue to
track what's been going on uh in Japan,
too.
>> Yeah. Uh we're going to turn the page on
the live shot and also the graphic
that's coming up. Dollar yen coming up.
scores the live shot out of north uh the
northern part of Japan I believe still
in Hiro in Hokkaido where it seems and
we're looking at some live pictures
there uh of I don't want to speculate so
I'll leave that for now but yes just to
update you you guys uh following an 8.7
magnitude earthquake which hit I would
say about 90 minutes back uh in far
eastern Russia in the same area another
8.8 8 earthquake was reported to have
hit about 20 minutes back. And following
that, a series of Japanese corporates
have come out and updated us, including
the power producers, TCO, the latest
one, to say that it has evacuated staff
uh from its Fukushima plants uh on the
back of these tsunami warnings.
>> Let's bring in John Herskovitz, who
joins us live from Tokyo here this
morning with the latest. Uh John, maybe
you could clarify with us, has a tsunami
hit yet? Uh can you just kind of give us
an update? Sure.
Um, in Japan there has been a reported
tsunami of 30 cm at one part of
Hokkaido, Japan's northernmost island.
On Japanese television, there's been
some footage from Russia which indicates
a tsunami has hit parts of the region.
Um what is forecast for Japan or what
the meteorological agency has warned of
is of a tsunami of up to three meters
and the warning stretches for large
parts of Japan's Pacific coast u from
Hokkaido through most of Honu. This is
an area that includes the Tokyo
metropolitan area, the Osaka
metropolitan area. So what is likely to
happen is that over the next two hours
the tsunami if it will be going down the
Japanese coast but so far the only
reported incidents has been the one in
Hokkaido of 30 cm.
>> Yeah we're getting more aftershocks as
well in the general area in Russia. So
following the 8.8 I'm counting at least
four or five five magnitude earthquakes
hitting five and a half 5.4 5.5 and the
latest one 5.6 coming through out of the
USGS. John, the reason I bring that up
is is this a region that's actually
prone to tsunamis and what impact could
it have uh especially in Japan as we
were just talking about there?
>> Sure. Japan is prone to tsunamis. It's
prone to earthquakes. Um what we the in
2011 the uh to<unk>hoku the northeastern
region of Japan was hit by that
devastating earthquake tsunami and the
nuclear disaster at Fukushima. Um a lot
of this region or almost all this region
has been rebuilt and there's seaw walls
along the this the coast in this region.
This is the region where the tsunami is
going to hit next. So there are a lot of
protections in place for the Tohoku
region. Um but we've seen some things
taking place already. Sai airport has
suspended flights because of this. Uh
Tokyo Haneda's airport which is in a
lowlying area. The flights are still
going as planned. So lots of
preparations going on but the government
is warning people in the lowlying areas
on the coast which is home to tens of
millions of people to if they're in
these areas to think about I'm sorry
they're advising them to leave these
areas. So, it's a concern. We're seeing
the first bits of it and we'll see how
it goes from here. But over the next 90
minutes to two hours, it should play out
on the on Japan's coast. And the warning
is for huge areas uh through Hawaii and
other parts of Asia.
>> John, can you tell us at this point what
do we know in terms of damage or even
injuries?
Uh in on the Japan side, nothing has
been reported in terms of injury or
damage. Um and as the tsunami goes down
the coast, we're going to see it hit
areas where there have been large
protections put in place after the 2011
tsunami. So so far, uh nothing has been
reported, but you know, the brunt of the
tsunami hasn't hit the most heavily
populated and developed areas of Japan
yet. So nothing yet, but we'll see what
how it plays out over the next 90
minutes to two hours.
And let's let's hope it stays that way.
John, thank you so much. John Herskovitz
there, our East Asia government editor
with the latest out of Tokyo for us.
>> To our other top story that we're
tracking today, the US and China have
wrapped up their meetings in Stockholm
with no deal to extend a tariff truce.
You have Treasury Secretary Scott Besson
saying that President Trump will make
that final call.
>> We don't want to decouple. We just need
to derisk with certain uh strategic
industries whether uh it's the rare
whether it's the rare earth
semiconductors medicines and you know we
talked about what we could do together
to get into balance within the
relationships
>> and Minman Low our China correspondent
is here with us to get us up to speed on
the details. So no deal but there is a
way forward it seems.
>> Yes. So the decision now lies with
President Trump. He is awaiting an
update from Scott Besson and then he
will decide whether or not to extend
that trade truce. But both sides had
described the talks as pretty
constructive, candid, productive. So the
mood music is pretty positive here. And
President Trump also said that he is
going to meet with presidency by the end
of the year. Really reversing what he
said yesterday when he tweeted out on
True Social saying he wasn't seeking a
summit. So now he's acknowledging that
that summit is going to happen. So
pretty positive note here, but we know
that rare earth was at the center of the
discussion. Jaime Sangria said he never
wants to talk about it again. It's case
closed. He said that this was the
biggest concession that China has given
to the US. They promise to keep those
rare earths flowing. When it comes to
the section 232 tariffs, he was asked
about that. But the US for now is saying
that no countries will be exempted from
those sectoral tariffs if they do get
announced further down the line. But of
course, there is the Ukraine war in
focus as well. China's purchase of these
Russian oil has been in focus. Scott
Besson had been warning the Chinese
about potential secondary sanctions
perhaps even as high as 100% and this is
one of the more intractable areas
because it's going to be very disruptive
for China to cut their oil import from
Russia. Uh Russia is their biggest crude
oil uh source of crude oil. Um and this
is where things were left a little bit
open and possibly where there is the
biggest opportunity is perhaps when it
comes to the fentinel related terrorists
whether or not those tariffs will be
lowered down uh further down the line.
>> It seems like it it we really just need
a Trump summit to finally get something
done. It are we laying the pathway for
that now? How close are we?
>> Yeah. Well, at least now there is a
confirmation that this summit is going
to happen. There is no time frame. We
could possibly be still quite far away
from that. But it looks like, you know,
President Trump, given his love for
showmanship, for deal making, he may
want to announce the bigger details of a
trade agreement when they finally meet.
And there there seems to be two camps
here. There are those who say that, you
know, this could be a sign that there
would be a grand bargain when they meet.
not just you know resolving the trade
issues but perhaps something that rel
that relates to you know greater
investments in manufacturing and energy
uh resolving the Tik Tok issue maybe
even some behind-the-scenes discussion
on how to resolve the Taiwan conflict as
well and then on the other cam you have
for example Dan Wang from Eurasia group
saying that this is the peak of USChina
relations it's warming up now but it's
going to get worse later perhaps the
most we'll get is a lowering of those
fentinel related tariffs but those
issues around tech curves, the strategic
competition with China, the financial
sanctions on China, that's not going to
stop. So, it's really hard to say given
the lack of more details on how uh on
what else was discussed during the trade
talks,
>> the collateral damage,
at least one of it has been Taiwan. Just
help us understand how the fallout has
showed up in in the Taiwan conversation.
Yeah, one of the signs that we got
earlier on was that reportedly the US
had failed to greenlight President
Link's trip to the US in a layover to
other countries. And that was the first
sign that perhaps the US might be
potentially trading away Taiwan as a
bargaining chip to reach its broader
China policy goals. And right now, Linta
is having a very difficult time in
Taiwan because they just had a recall
vote over the weekend and the DPP, the
ruling party really lost uh in a big
defeat there, which shows that the
Taiwanese people really wants to
continue to maintain this current
balance of power. And bear in mind,
Linga already won his presidential
election with the slimmest uh majority
since 2020. And right now, Taiwan is
also trying to reach a trade deal with
the US to reduce the potentially 32%
tariff that could kick in in August. So
far, no news yet, although sources are
saying that US has promised a most
preferred rate without specifying what
that number could be. But presumably, it
will be something similar to what Japan
and Europe has gotten, which is 15%.
But, you know, that's not happening yet.
And all signs point to, you know, the
questions of whether Taiwan can really
rely on the US at this point. Yeah, I
think Yan, our colleague in Taipei, was
saying if if we get 20% or even higher,
that means that could be a
disappointment on Taiwan side of things.
Menlo, thank you, our China
correspondent there with the latest. Uh
there's more on Trey coming up. The
former Canadian trade minister Marian
joins today's insight to discuss
Ottawa's down to the wire negotiations
with the US is at the top of the next
hour.
>> Yeah, if you think about it, India,
Taiwan,
>> Canada, you know,
>> South Korea,
>> still a lot.
>> Still a lot. And you know these are
places where are more aligned with the
US and seem to be on the back burner as
far as priorities is that a question
mark right with the US is concerned but
such as the way the world works and such
as the importance of China I guess to
underscore that point. Uh Mickey Chi
joins us as well here uh to talk us
through what that means for Asian equity
markets which by the way have done
exceptionally well going into going into
these trade talks despite it amid it.
Plenty more ahead. This is lumber.
[Music]
Okay, welcome back. So, we're a quick
glance at well, a couple of things,
right? So, you have a Fed decision
coming out. Number one, the here and now
though, this massive earthquake in
Russia, a pair of 8.7, 8.8, dollar yen,
as you can see on the screens. Coming up
shortly on your screens, is the state of
equity markets, which by the way, when
you look at the current pricing,
>> I mean, yes, the last, let's call it
last few days has seen a pullback. It's
been a great year though for equity
markets. In fact, I think we're up 50% I
think
>> on the Hanging Index over 12 months,
right? So 25,000 right now. MSE China's
at 81. Um, and it's not just the Chinese
markets. Korea's done well. Japan has
done well within this. We'll talk about
Macau later on as a separate as a
separate uh sector in this market. So,
what do we do now? Do we just sit and
enjoy and just enjoy the tailwinds? Uh,
joining us here on set is equities
portfolio manager at Rebecci.
Good morning. You have a big smile on
your face. Is it a reflection of how
good the year has been for you guys?
>> Uh, I think so. Yes. and and definitely
happy for the clients as well.
>> Oh, okay. So, how much money has I have
a very simple question. Hong Kong has
done very well. Southbound, we've been
focusing on that. How much money has
entered this Hong Kong market? Are you
feeling that as a as a petroleum
manager?
>> I think um the sense is that many of the
global money begin to come back to to
this region and we haven't seen that for
a very long time. So, Hong Kong has
definitely been, let's say, the first
stop of this liquidity uh reversal back
to the region. So, we definitely welcome
that very much.
>> It it that ah share premium is seems to
be not much of a premium anymore. It
continues to narrow, but you you you've
been looking at overall in general. What
is a picture now? really
>> that's um one of the interesting
phenomena that in the past three years
the discounts uh for the HS versus HS
has been basically expanding
continuously until the first half of
this year. So we've seen a discount
narrowing but actually comparing if you
look at the three-year horizon many of
the discounts are still deeper compared
to three years ago. So southbound
participation and support as a liquidity
provider in this Hong Kong market has
definitely been one of the main drivers.
And if you look at the list of stocks
with with huge discounts, there are
still quite a lot. So especially those
with good dividend yield support should
continue to see this discount narrowing.
Are there any specific risks to the the
the big drivers of returns or the big
winners so far that you're at least
watching for now given how good things
have have been?
>> I think definitely at this stage stock
selection would become uh even more
important. I think valuation is again uh
a point of focus but I think more
fundamentally is that um through the AI
and technology devel developments in
many of the sectors in China there is a
fundamental uh change of view on how
much the future earnings would develop
for many of these companies. So I think
for longerterm investors uh for
longerterm stock picking that would be
the next step focus is to differentiate
the companies with sustainable
longerterm earnings delivery versus
let's say the short-term rallies and
excitements.
>> How visible is that in China right now?
>> I think that has become much more
visible um now compared to half a year
ago.
>> Okay. uh of course valuation has partly
reflected that but in the technology uh
heavy sector so you're talking about
whether that's software whether that's
part of the manufacturing but also very
much in healthcare uh which is also
technologyheavy sector many of these
businesses are slowly changing and
starting to be recognized as having um a
much better longer term outlook
>> and you mentioned I think even six
months ago before even deepseek was sort
of a household game was to focus on
software. Is that still the case?
>> Uh that is still the case and many of
these ideas have um done really really
well this year. But if you look at for
example even the mega cap internet
stocks in China, they are still trading
at a very big discount compared to their
global counterparts. So for me what's
interesting is that the next step while
everybody is focusing on the trade
discussions and that is very much on the
physical trade. I think the interesting
thing would be the services exports
that's potentially coming up. So for
many of these Chinese internet companies
if they have a very significant
international presence this part of the
businesses is typically very undervalued
compared to their global count
counterparts. So I think a lot of these
perspectives are not really being looked
at but now with the global flow coming
back to this region I think many of the
international investors would be looking
at these companies again and discover
that there are many interesting and
exciting prospects for them that is not
being really recognized as um part of
the local investment community. Yeah,
that's interesting. The the the
opportunities outside China because
people usually talk about the big
platform companies, the big tech
companies and they look at domestic
revenue growth, they don't really look
at outside. So I guess my question, how
material do you think that will be for
these companies in terms of being able
to figure out is this a proper
valuation? It's still a small part of
the business, but it could grow. How are
you looking at that?
>> So we're still in the seeding stage if
you look at many of the companies
investments. So a lot of them are very
um active in Azion. They're active in
Latin America. They're active in the
Middle East. Many of these companies
have presence there. They have actually
significant businesses, but they
typically don't generate a lot of profit
yet. So that's why people typically
focus on the domestic business as mostly
where the earnings are coming from now.
So the question is how do you look at
them? Do you think that their
international businesses have actually a
strong footing to be sustainable profit
drivers? And I think that is probably
going to be very important uh in the
coming let's say two to three years. You
can see that they can actually ramp up
monetization and improve the cost
structures overseas.
>> Okay. So eventually this is going to be
more of a key part in how people look at
this. But domestically we're still
talking about something called
anti-involution, right? what are you
seeing in terms of the potential
you know returns on this the impact on
earnings and margins and what sectors
actually are going to benefit from this
sort of effort
>> um I think the government's attitude is
very clear they want companies to manage
their cost better they want them to um
generate profits but this time around
it's a bit difficult so I think in the
markets you've seen that um upstream
stocks rallied a lot excitement uh
around let's say uh steel, cement, uh
the usual suspects in the upstream
sectors. But if you look at capacity
cuts, we're talking about 5%, maximum
10%. And these um SOE controlled
sectors, I don't think is the real focus
this time around. Right? So I think
managing private companies
to stop them from overcompeting against
each other is a much more tough job and
much different task compared to control
S so SOE to cut capacity. So
eventually I think where the regulator
would focus on to stop this over
competition would be to improve the
legal structure um help the companies to
establish proper intellectual property
protection to stop this
>> commoditized
>> pricing competition.
>> So I think that would be needed but I
think we're not there yet to reach the
purpose but I think the government is
very busy trying to achieve that.
>> Yeah. it and you know markets have
responded to that already I think is the
point and I think the question to you I
think you've answered that it's it's
difficult to see how the rally can
continue even further given it's it's it
it's a very hard proposition to to model
let's put it that way I want to ask you
about what what else is going on in the
region um Japan of course has done well
I mean surprisingly well up until well
recently was rangebound and then did
well following the last two developments
their politics how are you looking at
Japan as a driver for strategies these
days.
>> Yeah. So we continue to focus on stock
selection very much uh in Japan uh and
and and same way also actually uh in
Korea as well. So we're seeing um
defense and um let's say the global
capex for for uh electricity grids. Some
of these global
>> developments continues to spread out in
Asia. So many of the Asian companies
that are participating in these mega
trends globally continues to deliver
alpha for the for our portfolios. So for
investors I think again it's important
to keep the global perspective because
in Asia we have many of these under
underdiscovered and undervalued
opportunities in these supply chains
that are very much actively uh supplying
into these mega trends globally. So
that's how we are looking at some of
these uh investment opportunities.
>> And you also actually added Korea before
the political turmoil. What what do you
think is changed now now that we have a
new president? He seems to be very
forceful in terms of carrying out some
of these campaign pledges when it comes
to AI when it comes to corporate reforms
and the like. What's changed do you
think in Korea now?
Uh I think the previously when we talk
about the value up program is always
kind of a hope in Korea and I think we
have come a long way in terms of making
that much more tangible for investors.
>> Uh now that many of these stocks have
rallied uh we've seen a dramatic
improvement in price to book. So showing
investors expectation improvement for
many of these corporates. Uh the next
step would be execution. So I think we
probably expect some noise, some kind of
consolidation in some of these ideas.
But we do believe that once um the
government and the corporates come into
action, there should still be a lot of
opportunities in Korea as that remains
to be still a very cheap market.
>> The So we've done well, let's call it
the last seven months in 2020. What's
the outlook this year? And I'm gonna
throw in a macro question.
global economy seems to be cooling and
I'm wondering if you're concerned over
that or do the idiosyncratic factors
continue to lift stocks.
>> I think the first half of this year in
terms of the fundamentals when we think
about like this the potential of trade
wars in the beginning of the year I
think the first half has been uh well
exceptionally well um both in terms of
fundamentals and and uh share price
performance in the second half of the
year. um if the trade impact
materializes then actually I think
fundamentally we would start to see some
of the let's say expected negatives to
come through. So I think on a half on
half basis we probably see uh quite some
uncertainties uh in terms of numbers but
I think coming back to our region um we
have still very strong balances across
the board and governments uh so new
governments in place and very willing to
support the economy. So from that
perspective, I think our region with a
weakening dollar should stand very well.
>> Vicki, thank you. Vicki Chither,
equities portfolio manager at Robico. We
got plenty more ahead. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
Right, welcome back. So a couple of
updates here. Number one is out of
Japan. No reports of abnormality at
nuclear facilities. That's a good thing.
Let's hope it remains that way. Taiwan's
got an update on their front. Taiwan
expects a tsunami to affect the island
from 1:18 p.m. uh local time. That's
according to the Central Weather Admin.
And in Indonesia, they have just issued
an early warning for a tsunami there in
Silowi in Maluca. Plenty more ahead.
More details ahead. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Just want to bring you up to speed and
the latest on this tsunami after this
earthquake in Russia. So we are hearing
the likes of Indonesia in just the last
couple minutes issuing that early
warning for tsunami insulia and Maluku.
Uh President Trump in the US has also
been talking about the tsunami watch in
effect for Alaska as well. uh also for
those living in Hawaii. So that has come
through in the last couple of minutes as
well as President Trump of course has
returned home after going to Scotland.
So certainly that's one to watch. Taiwan
also in the last couple of minutes uh
expecting tsunami to affect the island
later on this afternoon. 1:18 p.m. is
the time that the Central Weather
Administration has issued here right
now. And so that's the latest there. Uh
we are going to see continually what
goes on in Japan. You know, so far we've
only heard about 30 cm height waves have
made reach there, but certainly that's
the latest when we heard from NHK. We're
waiting for some sort of update there,
but Dave, certainly one to watch. Uh,
and really we're seeing it almost across
the world right now, the effects from
this earthquake.
>> Yeah, and we'll continue to update our
viewers and our clients of course on
what's going on there. So certainly as
Ivan is pointing out, Japan, Chile,
Hawaii, uh Taiwan, I'm getting I'm
looking at some of my social media feed.
The Philippines is also expecting
tsunamis there as well. And again, it's
it's hard to underscore also uh the size
of tsunamis is still not clear at the
moment. So this looks to be a story
we'll continue to track over the next
few hours or so. We'll update you guys
in a moment here. In the meantime
though, just a focus on Macau. We talked
about some of the uh the drivers of this
equity market rally and really when you
look at Macau the stocks itself I I'll
show you how that's really outperformed
uh of late. But before we get to that
though, so data yesterday showed just
under 90% hotel occupancy. Big picture
though, you take a step back. What the
chart shows you is yearly growth in
overnight stays uh measured by the
number of people. So measured number of
people on average monthly we're looking
at about currently it's about 1.2. The
track the chart goes all the way back to
2003. Just under 10% annual is the
average from 2003 early 2000s to about
when the pandemic hit which is quite
clear. Now if the pandemic didn't hit if
you extrapolate that 10% a year. This
should be in the order of this should be
at about 1.8 to 2 million. As you can
see we have recovered to prepandemic
levels. We haven't recovered to
prepandemic trend which is something
separate. The question though is um are
we operating in a new normal and are
revenues back to the point that this
doesn't even matter at this point in
time when you look at markets in fact
when you look at markets specifically
and how that's really outperformed house
wins with the exception of healthcare
that's done exceptionally well Macau
casinos are number two when you look at
some of the benchmarks and the sectors
within MSEI China so this is measures it
all the way back to March from April 9
at that point in time we're up 55%
Ivonne uh on the Macau casino Ino gauge.
So, uh, suffice to say, um, it's a play
on maybe dividends. It's a play on the
recovery, uh, transport, visas, all the
all the good stuff that we talk about
here in the show.
>> Jackie Jung, Gragon,
all those sort of
>> Bruno Mars. Runa Mars.
>> Runa Mars. Yeah.
>> Wasn't he there?
>> Well, that was
>> Yeah. The Londoner. Wasn't David Beckham
there?
>> I mean, there's just a lot of celebs,
right? Um, but yes. Uh, let's get the
take from
>> Jennifer Son, our next guest. she sees
further upside for some of these casino
stocks given the sector's favorable
long-term outlook. Jennifer Song is the
senior equity analyst at Morning Star.
Jennifer, it's always great to have you,
right? So, you know, we've been talking
about, right, it's it's been up some 50%
some of these Macall casino operators uh
since the lows that were reached in
April.
>> You seem quite strong that you know,
have a lot of conviction that this
uptrend can continue. What what factors
are you looking at in particular?
Okay, so the Macau's gaming demand has
been quite strong in recent months. We
see a couple of key drivers. Firstly, we
see uh some new hotels in the market
which including uh Londoner space 2 and
also the Capella from Galaxy and also
new villas from MGM China. So these
product products are particular target
for the premium customer which are very
high-end luxury hotels and these are
driving VIP and high-end premium mass
gaming demand. Secondly, we also sees
the higher VIP hot rates and also the
more aggressive offering from casino
operators to to their VIP clients. So
these are also driving the GGR's trends
and in addition definitely the non
gaming events such as the very
successful
Jack's concert as well as higher
promotional cost from the casino
operators. All these are driving the
significant traffic to Macau. Yeah, this
uh positive momentum will likely to
extend in the second half.
>> Jennifer David here. So among the other
things that doesn't seem to get a lot of
attention, things like transport links
and the outlook for the visa regimes.
Are you looking at those two things as
possible drivers still of of business
into into Macau?
>> Uh definitely that will help for the
convenience of traveling from Milan to
uh Macau because um mainland tourist
contributes about 70% of the overall
visitations to Macau. So that definitely
will help.
>> And in terms of what you think is going
to be the winners here, I mean, it seems
like it's floating a lot of these casino
operators right now. There's this whole
optimism around this recovery, but who
stands out to you as as ones that could
actually be winners?
>> Okay, so actually for the second half,
we are looking for those casinos have
market share gain potentials and also
the dividend upset. So uh in conclusion
we will like uh Galaxy and also Sans
China.
>> Okay. Um Sans just reported
>> and I think the I think in a couple of
weeks of course we'll get almost a
repeat of those numbers coming through.
Do you have any key takeaways as far as
Sans is concerned? Because you mentioned
Londoner, that's the new property and I
wonder whether you've also seen
cannibalism between their properties
because of this new baby that's out.
>> Uh yes, we see uh actually South China
Murray some premium clang from his other
property to boost the Londoner the new
Londoner. So we see the strong growth of
Londoner but quite weak of other smaller
property.
So, so we think the company is uh taking
some new strategy to boost the the the
growth of other smaller um properties
and also at the same time to drive the
Londoners growth. So in particular the
company will lift its uh promotional
efforts. So that means the pro
promotional cost will increase. Yeah. So
that will driving a higher stronger
growth in the second half.
>> Okay. something that you've mentioned a
couple of times already in the last few
minutes Jennifer is the return of the
pre the premium customer
>> can you talk to us a little bit more
about that how that because when someone
tells me premium in Macau I think about
the VIPs and the high rollers from many
years ago and of course is that
returning or is this returning in a
different way
>> okay actually because Junker actually
grew up the market so part of the
original Junker VIP clan they are
reaching to the premium mass or direct
VIP client to to the uh casinos. So, but
the amount currently definitely very low
compared with the prepandemic level. So,
according to the uh official data, we
see the the VIP GGR only accounts for
like uh under 30% of 2000 uh under 30%
of overall GGR. But before pandemic the
number will be above 45 to 50%. So
definitely that that is still low but uh
the growth is very fast and also the
this part of uh demand are really
driving the the overall industry GGR. So
we expect actually the um the VIP
accounts for about 10% of overall
industry GTR but the premium mass
accounts for uh 40 to 50% of the mass
revenue from Macau. So that's really a
large group for now.
>> Okay. So is is the narrative then to
focus on the VIPs really driving the
rest of the year and second half or
should we still focus on mass market?
>> Uh actually for casino operators they
are too focused on the premium mass. So
when they build the hotels they are
quite premium luxury and are driving
those premium mass demand because base
mass is pretty much linked with the
overall China's uh overall economy. So
it is still facing some challenges. So
base mass growth is still quite slow at
the moment.
>> Uh Jennifer, what's the best among these
casino operator? What is the best
dividend play?
>> The dividend play actually at the moment
they just recovering and at the moment
MGM China offers the highest dividend
yield is about 3.8% at this level. Yeah.
and others
are still recovering like since China
the dividend yield is about 2.7% at the
moment.
>> Okay. And I think the next few weeks
we'll see other casino operators report
as well. Some of the dates are still
TBC, but is there any one specific name
you're tracking or one specific theme
you think we should be paying attention
to when uh these companies report
results?
>> Okay, we would like to see uh Galaxy
Macau's result. We we want to see
whether the new hotel will bring market
share gain for the company and also we
want to see whether MGM China will stay
defensive to defend its market share.
These two are particular we want to pay
attention to.
>> Jennifer, thank you so much. Jennifer
Song, senior equity analyst there at
Morning Star on this winning trade so
far and reasons why perhaps it continues
there as far as the Macau casino trade
is concerned. Okay. Uh just an update
here of the top story we've been
tracking this morning. Live pictures out
of Japan. An update separately, but the
same story out of Taiwan here that they
do expect the tsunami to um let me have
a look at that headline just to be
exceptionally clear and accurate how
they're
>> 118
>> 11:18 p.m. local time.
>> And it is the the tsunami to affect the
island from that point in time. other
things taking place. Donald Trump, the
US president is also um has also put out
something. As far as this is concerned,
it's a watch is tsunami watch is in
effect uh for Alaska. Uh it has been
front and center as far as Hawaii is
concerned. The entire state and Maui
County has in fact ordered uh
evacuations there as well.
>> And from what we know so far, we haven't
heard any sort of reports on damages
just yet. in Japan. Uh we did hear from
some officials. Uh Hayashi Sun, this is
the chief cabinet secretary, spoke in
the last 30 minutes or so. No reports of
damage to essential services right now.
Uh so we'll continue to watch this one,
but yes, uh we were continue to see
tsunami watches all around the world
here. We'll give you an update after
this break. Plenty more ahead. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
Right, welcome back. Something you may
have missed is this 12% rally we're
looking at in steel prices. Rebars
specifically um had the best day this
year yesterday. As you can see, we're
adding on to those gains. Iron or is
bottom of the screen. So, two things are
working out here as far as market
themes. Number one is this mega project
which we'll get to in a moment. Second,
of course, is anti-involution and maybe
the steel sector as the lowhanging fruit
that might start to show the effects of
that um exercise. In fact, on the
anti-involution, we've been asking our
guests about that and what they really
think uh will happen as far as that
conversation goes as far as the economy
and also uh the markets. Have a listen.
>> Selling China short right now doesn't
have a market. Anti- anti-evolution will
not work in the next probably four to
eight months. But over time, the capital
market will pick up the positive
sentiment and in a year or two the real
economy will will respond. So I'm fairly
positive over the impact of this in the
long run.
>> Managing private companies
to stop them from overcompeting against
each other is a much more tough job and
much different task compared to control
SOE to cut capacity. So
>> eventually I think where the regulator
would focus on to stop this over
competition would be to improve the
legal structure. Um help the companies
to establish proper intellectual
property protection to stop this
commoditized
>> pricing competition.
And you add that right to this whole
theme of this big mega dam, right? And
that's why you're seeing this massive
rally underway. And construction
officially began this month for that 167
billion dollar mega dam in Tibet. It's
set to become one of the biggest
infrastructure projects in history and a
legacy defining gamble for President Xi
as he tries to revive China's slowing
economy. Let's bring in Dan Mur joining
us from Beijing for more on today's big
tape. Dan, we we talked about the scale
of this, the big number of 167 billion
price tag,
>> but tell us a bit more how big of a
gamble this is for President Xi,
especially since he's really kind of
using the old playbook to revive growth
now.
>> Yeah. You know, it was just a couple
years ago that people started to think
that China's era of building big mega
dams was over. you know, they had built
three gorges, uh, Bhatan, Wongda, uh,
and, you know, there weren't really many
places left except for this one out in
Tibet, the Arling Tangbo. Uh, but for
many years, people thought this was kind
of a a pie in the sky idea. It it's very
far away from anybody who, you know,
lives or works. It's it's a long way to
truck materials. You're up in the
Himalayan mountains. Uh, and it's in a a
pretty seismically active zone. So,
there there's some danger there, too.
But we have an economy now that needs is
in need of stimulus and and so these two
things are working together and I guess
the time was right the Chinese
government thought to bring this project
uh to fruition and so now they're
they're launching it. Uh it's going to
require you know the as much cement as
60 Hoover dams as much steel as 116
Empire State buildings you know 200,000
workers perhaps. Uh it's going to
transform this uh sort of remote small
corner of of Tibet. uh there's going to
be risks of ecological and environmental
danger. But really, you know, China, you
know, China loves nothing more than a
big mega project to get the country to
sort of rally behind it and and try to
get out of an economic malaise. And
that's what it's doing right now.
>> Yeah. I mean, to the point you're
making, the you know, the short-term
pump priming pump priming to this part
of the the country on the economy, not
to even mention the the longer term
growth this possibly unlocks because of,
you know, simply because of that new
power source. Dan, do we know more about
what the sort of longer term benefits
are to that part of the country
economically?
>> Yeah, you know, this the nice thing
about this project is, you know, it's
not going to be one of those, you know,
bridges to nowhere or the the third
airport in a small city in Guay Joe.
This is definitely going to have some
value. It's going to be possibly as much
as 70 gawatts of uh carbon-f free
electricity. that that's more than three
times the Three Gorgeous Dam, which is
currently the world's biggest power uh
station. It it's going to probably
provide power all the way to Hong Kong,
maybe even to your uh your studio there,
David. And you know, it's going to do so
for for decades. It's going to take
about 15 years to build, but uh but you
know, around that time is when it's
going to be more and more difficult to
absorb more and solar, wind, solar, and
wind power into the Chinese grid. So,
when it comes on around the the late
2030s, 2040, it's going to be sorely
needed.
and certainly needed at a time when
Beijing is really trying to reign in
these price wars in the industrial
sector. This whole anti-involution theme
it seems this project sort of
complements that in some way, Dan. So,
are we expecting more of these more of
these sort of infrastructure projects? A
big push and moving forward.
>> That's the real big question right now.
you know, the planners are all getting
together this year to put together the
next 5-year work plan, which will be
announced at the uh the NPC next March.
A and analysts are saying, you know,
this might be the the first domino to
fall in a series of big infrastructure
projects. You know, certainly as big as
this dam is, when you look at China's
overall industrial scale, you know, six
uh 6 million tons of steel is as a high
end of the estimate we've seen, that's
you know, the China produces a billion
tons of steel a year. So by itself, this
isn't going to be able to to completely
reflate the economy in these industrial
sectors. But if this is the signal that,
you know, China's willing to put some
fiscal stimulus behind its measures to
rein in over supply, then uh then it
really could sort of end this
deflationary cycle that China stuck in.
>> Dan, thank you so much. Dan Meraw there,
our Bloomberg News reporter and for our
Bloomberg clients, NI Big Tape Go. A lot
of good graphics, a lot of good
information. Very important context
there on uh on today's take.
>> Yeah, as we talk about right the legacy
of this this means for President Xi and
the like here, but also there's a lot of
criticism around it. Right. Obviously,
when you talk about policies in Tibet,
which has been a very sort of sensitive
uh sort of area, also when it comes to
what this means in India and how they
view this whole infrastructure push as
well.
>> That certainly is going to be a big one.
Make sure to check it out on the big
take here today. In some of the world
news that we're watching this morning,
Shanghai is bracing for heavy rain a day
after flooding killed at least 30 people
in Beijing and cut power to villages.
Storm K is expected to make landfall
around China's financial capital on
Wednesday with hundreds of flights
likely to be cancelled. State media says
the torrential downpour that soaked
Beijing on Monday forced more than
80,000 people to leave their homes. UK
Prime Minister Kier Stomer says Britain
will recognize Palestine in September
unless Israel agrees to a ceasefire with
Hamas. He says Israel must also commit
to a peace process that would result in
a Palestinian state. The decision
follows similar plans from France and
signals a sharp diplomatic shift. Israel
condemned the announcement, calling it a
reward for terrorism. Oil prices are in
focus after President Trump said he's
giving Russia until August 8th to agree
to a Ukraine ceasefire or face tariffs
and possible secondary sanctions. Trump
had originally set a 50-day deadline
which would have fallen in early
September. He also says he's not
concerned about oil market fallout
because the US can ramp up its own
energy production. An Australian space
rocket making the country's first
attempt to reach orbit has crashed
shortly after takeoff. The AIS rocket
exploded after 14 seconds of flight from
a launch pad northwest of Brisbane. But
Gilmore Space says it still considers a
launch a quote big step for Australian
capability and is setting its sights on
another test flight. The launch came
after months of delays. Plenty more
ahead. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Just want to bring you up to speed. The
US, Japan, Philippines, and other
countries are bracing for tsunamis after
that powerful earthquake in Russia's far
east. So waves as high as 4 meters and
several injuries were reported by media
in Russia after that 8.8 earthquake
struck. Uh in Japan, we have seen a
tsunami warning issued for parts of
Japan. Waves as high as 3 meters
expected. That's according to NHK. Uh
but so far, we haven't seen that just
yet. Right. What has been reported so
far from the public broadcaster is a 30
cimeter wave was detected in the
northernmost region of Hokkaido. Parts
of Japan could get waves though as high
as 3 meters though. But yes, it could
reach the southern parts of the country
within hours. And what we've seen so far
is really a lot of precautions taking
place whether that's at staff from KCO
at their Fukushima plants or evacuation
orders in in in in Maui County uh or the
the cancellation of flights at Sai
airport again on expectations
or precautions in the event that
tsunamis which are reported to be coming
over the next few hours will eventually
happen. That's it from us. Plenty more
ahead here on Blooper television.
[Music]